No, too, because we were only 11 grades. Yeah. And
what, were you planning to go to college? Oh, yeah.
All right. I went there. How did you get back and
forth from here to Bryan High? Driving a first one,
I was driving a 28 Hummel sedan. You drove the car
yourself? Yeah. How many other kids drove their
car to school? I don't know. Not that one. And
describe that Hupmobile. A big old six-cylinder,
four-door. What color? Blue. And let's see, did it
have a regular gear shift? Yeah. Cloth top or hard
top? That's what I thought. The first one to come in
with that hardtop would be a 37 Ford. And did
anybody ride with you, or did you go by yourself?
Well, I drove it all by myself for the first year.
And then, of course, my sister came on, too. And so
we drove together there. The other sister came
along. Did anybody fuss at your parents or at you
about your not going to A&M Consolidated? No. That
didn't matter? No problem at all. Did you think
that this was a better school than what you had
gotten? Yeah, quite a lot better. Because they
didn't have any manual training. What about
science courses? What science courses did you
take in high school? Oh, I don't know what that lady
was. Her name was Klein. She taught the science.
Did you have physics, biology, chemistry?
Well, it was just a general Physics, I guess you
would call it. How much math? We had all the math.
Were there some teachers you had that you now
realize were very effective? Yeah, particularly
in English. Who?
Whether
I can remember that woman's name or not, but she's
kind of a small woman. She was tough.
She was tough. Did you and your Bryan High School
buddies ever do any pranks or tricks? I never was
around up there. I was admitted to school because I
went. So you didn't get involved in any mischief?
No, I didn't get involved in any mischief. Did you
take part in any extracurricular activities?
Athletics, band? No, see, I couldn't. As I told
you, I couldn't. In my younger years, I couldn't do
much or anything. I can today. And in those high
school age years, what did you do in the summer? We
traveled. Where? Well, let's see, in 1928 we went
to the ASHV, no, not the
ASHV, the ASAE, ASAE society, on the train to Salt
Lake City to,
what's the one up in there? Lake Tahoe. We were
there in 28. My, my. And Rockefeller was on the
campus. You can see that on the wind, yeah. I was
walking around there with a high collar, old and
black. What kind of personality did he seem to
have? We wouldn't even touch him. The only thing
about that place was that you couldn't swim.
What we did, we went out to the end of the pier, and
you could read a damn newspaper down there, I don't
know how far down. The water was that clear? That
clear. And all you had to do was, you just made up
your mind, and you just, You dove off into that
thing, and then you turned around, and you climbed
back that ladder as quick as you could. Water was
that cold? Cold. Deliciously cold. All right, so
where, and you went there. Where else did you go in
the summers? We went to, that year we went to
San Francisco, and we stayed there a while. And
then we got on a boat, a coastal steamer, and went to
Portland. And I was the only one that didn't get
seasick out of all of us. We got to Portland, and
then we went to—on the train from Portland, we went
to Vancouver, and then across the—across the
an island out there. And then we went back to
Canadian Vancouver.
Well, first we went to Seattle and then we came back
to
Vancouver. And we got on the Canadian Railway
and went to Banff. Have you been there? No. There's
one more place you ought to go. All right, other
summers, where did you go?
Well,
the next year we go at...
hub mobile to up to northern Minnesota two harbors
on the north side of the up there and then we went to
Canada one day came back with a bunch of Canadian
blankets have you seen one of those black, some of
them black, some had some white ones with the
stripe all the way across the top. Those things, we
were all, we had a hell of a time getting them back in
there because we went across there to port, Huron I
guess it is or some port and then we turned around
almost too quick and people that didn't like it.
Daddy talked them out of it. So then we came back
from that and we drove down to
Redwood Falls, Minnesota. My father had his
brother, his uncle. was living in Redwood Falls,
Minnesota. So you got to see some family. Yeah, the
old man, yeah. And he had gone out there after my
grandfather had died. And
they had tuberculosis, and they had Cromwell. and
they all split and so he had gone to out there in east
western Minnesota and I remember that to this day.
Walked up there and there's a young man there and
later we've seen him since and He asked if it's
Elmer. Is Elmer here? Told him who we were and he
understood. And so we went in there and the old man
was raising honey. What he loved to do was he had a
bunch of honeybees and he was raising honey for
Oh, it's clover honey. It's very sweet. And so we
walked in there and I can hear dad yell, I'm Will's
boy. Will's boy. Just yelling at him. Just yelling
at him on top of his voice. And finally the old man
lightened up.
And he sure got it. he come out of there and of course
he was he was in his he was quite old i don't know how
old he would have been but anyways he was just uh
finally got warmed up to where dad who dad was and he
was so glad to see him We've kept up with those
people. See, that's what this is from. All this
stuff here. Now, you traveled some in the summer.
Did you have summer jobs also? Yeah, I had one.
What'd you do? Well, Dad got it in 1934. Dad got me a
job at South Dakota State at Brookings for the
whole summer. What'd you do? Well, they were...
They were interested in rammed earth
construction, where you ram the earth and then you
just let her stand. And they had gone all over South
Dakota and picked up all the different types of
soil that they had there. And they brought them
back into this one. And they had rammed them into
this one great big old wall that they had up there
that they built. and uh so my job for that was that's
what i really and i had to go out there and cut some of
that dirt out of the way and where they had rods
through there and stick and put concrete in there
and seal it off so that hole that rod that went
through that He had two walls and they had these
rods between them. And they ran those things. And
they pulled in and they pulled the bolt out. My job
was to fix that up and get it ready to, they were
going to struggle with it. So that was one thing.
And then the other thing was that I just worked in
the shops there. And one morning,
I was just sitting there, working around in there
and straightening up things. And this man came in
through there. And I've never seen a man so mad hot.
Oh, that man was hot. He was really hot. He says,
come fix this damn tractor.
What had happened? He'd gone out there and he was
plowing that field that night before. And he was
plowing it with a Case cross-engine tractor. Big
old four-cylinder cross-engine. It sticked
crossways a little bit. And so he had just stopped
out there, cut the engine off, and then he went, the
next morning when he went out there, he
just, well, I'll just go start it up again. He was
already fueled up and everything, I guess. So he
went out there and that crank was about 42 inches
off the ground. Very big old thing. And so he had to
stand out there and just crank it off his hand like
that. Well, some of their people there in the
department had rebuilt the magneto on that
tractor. And they used ordinary shellac, not
electrical shellac. It wouldn't stand the heat.
So when he stopped that tractor and that heat got
all over that mag, it stuck the rotor.
Between the mag and the rotor. And when he was
cranking it, That impulse coupling that's on
there,
it's a wind-up arrangement on the spring, is what
it went to. And you just wind it, and you hear it
click. And you're supposed to fire that cylinder.
Well, it didn't until the last time. And all of a
sudden, it turned loose. And it backfired on all
four cylinders. And he just went up from there, and
about 30 yards out there in the field, I found two
handprints and two knee prints. Luckily, he had
fallen on the soft earth again. Now, was that job in
1934, was that while you were in college? Yeah. All
right, let's back up. Well, let me finish this. Oh,
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well. They were so poor. I
took it all apart, the tractor apart. And they had
used Model A spark plugs in them, which were too
long. And they were burning the tips off of them.
And so then I had to go. They were so poor that I had to
go to the president of the college. And he had to go
downtown and buy the... Those spark plugs. My
goodness. That's how poor they were up there. And
they had a whole dormitory full of women over
there. Right now, you mentioned poor. Describe as
fully as you can what depression, what the
depression was like here at Texas A&M. It was not
bad. You see, we got the Texas A&M people, the
students and the professors were lucky. See,
Texas has a, we have a biannual appropriation, all
right. They had already made the appropriation.
They couldn't change it and so what happened was
that we dead had a pretty good salary there for
quite a while and so then what happened was that
they reduced it down in the next biennium and so the
legislature made a tone that that the women and the
The
daughters and the women of
the professors could go here to school. And there
were 15 to 17 of them that did. Now this is what, do
you remember about when that was? That would be in
about 1933.
Did any of your sisters go? Yes, both of them. How
were they treated? Wonderful.
They got along real good. They liked it? They liked
it. They made some real good friends. And the boys
liked it, to have girls in the class? I don't know. I
never had a girl in mine, but
they did. I know a bunch of them. My sister, we were
talking about it the other night, the other
afternoon. We were over at Luby's. She was talking
about it. And she told me, and there was a, in the
battalion, there was, right in the middle, there
was a page in there with all her pictures. And she's
still got that battalion. Now we're, and these
were faculty daughters. Faculty daughters or...
Staff daughters. Staff daughters. But nobody, no
other women were allowed. But they did
immediately, I think after that, they did let the,
in summer school, let women go.
Now, were you all still living on the campus when
the Depression hit? No. You had moved off. We moved
off, yes. Dad
he designed the house that we're living in and I
remember him going we went all over this town there
were several houses in here that he was looking at
he wanted an overhang on that house it's three feet
sticks out three feet this way flat and then of
course you got the big roof on top of it but then He
designed it, and then he got a contractor. And it
was a whole turnkey job. And see, that has a
basement under it, too. It had a furnace in it. All
of that was $75 million. Do you remember what year
that was?
That would be in 20, that would be in 24, because
that's when we moved into it. Okay, okay. We moved
into it on the 17th of November in 1924. And so...
December. It would be December, not November. All
right, so you all are off campus, and the house is
paid for and all, and the Depression hits. But what
about the effects of the Depression on the
community here? Oh, for any of them, not any. What
about in Bryan? There was quite a lot of problems.
There were a lot of problems there. We never
were...
We never did know too much about them. They didn't
have any people. Well, the people just took care of
other people, not doctors, for one thing. The
doctor never turned down a patient. And then some
of the Negro, some of the, one of them I know, they'd
bring him up there to his house, and he would never
take it in the house, but he'd, some Negro gets
hurt, you know. He'd just lay one of us on the
driveway out there and patch him up.
The hospital was the old St. Joseph's north of the
business district? No, you know, Horton and
Bryan? No, it was that one that's on near the, I
don't know what the name of that street is, goes
west. That's where it is. It's not I think they
converted that into some sort of a... Retirement
home. Retirement home. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that
one. The building there. Yeah. But before that, it
was down there near the courthouse. You know,
there's a building down there. That's where they
took my father. He had his gallbladder out in 1932.
Now, here on the campus... Were you faculty
youngsters, were you eligible to go to the quack
shack on the campus? The hospital? Oh, yeah. Dr.
Ellinger treated me. Dr. Marsh treated me. There
were two of the Ellingers. The old man. Now he was a
specialist in
respiratory disease, principally pneumonia.
Now I've heard that Dr. Marsh delivered some
children at the homes on the campus. Well that was
done all over the country. Matter of fact, My wife,
I'm sure, was on there. What they usually did, they
went into the living room or the dining room. You
had a big old table. And put the mother on the table?
Yeah. They made a bed on top of the table and put her
up there. And that was the usual procedure. One of
the Cashion boys told me that Dr. Marsh and his wife
had a commitment for dinner, and his mother went
into labor, and so Dr. Marsh came over to their
house and delivered him a little early so they
could still make it to the dinner party. Describe
Dr. Marsh as you remember him. I never did. You
didn't? Dr. Ellinger. But you think highly of him.
Dr. Ellinger? Dr. Marsh was the one. I was talking
about Schultz.
His
father told me that South Oakwood, he lived right
there. We knew each other because we backed up to
his property. He was down there. He got hurt one
day. And somehow or another, I don't know what it
was, something they had these, they made
syrup.
You took sorghum
and run it through a mill. And then you took it in
there and cooked it off. Made molasses. Well, you
also made sorghum. Well, sorghum molasses is what
we called it. Well, somehow or another, he got his
arm into this machine. And Dr. Morris was a young
doctor then. Just come to town. I asked him about it
here just not more than a couple years ago. I asked
him about the whole thing. I said, I knew you were
you're injured, but I didn't know what it was at
all. But he said Dr. Marsh was in there. And Dr.
Marsh wouldn't, the doctors wanted to cut his arm
off. He was a regular doctor. And Dr. Marsh went in
there and he said, don't cut that man's arm off. And
he worked with it. and worked with him until they
got the bone back in the place. And that man served
in the Air Force. Good. Never requested it. Oh,
good. So you understand what his...
So I always thought that he was a good man. And there
were others... I don't know, they just seemed to,
they had a good staff. And another thing they had
was, there was the nurses.
Were they good? Excellent. And one of them one day,
they couldn't find a doctor, and this kid had come
down with a, a hell of a hurt in the right side, and
she knew what was wrong. She
took all her help that she could find and some more,
and she went in there and cut that appendix out all
by herself. My, my. Who was that youngster? Do you
know? I don't know the name of the youngster. But it
worked successfully. Yeah, and I remember she was
at the American Legion when I first went out there.
There were some tough women around. Take on
responsibility. Another thing I always found,
that the wife of
an officer or men in service, I mean, where the
woman had to do a lot of even shipping or taking care
of things. Sure. They made the best people you
could find, even if they were in the... I kind of,
well, they were supposed to work, but they didn't
work. In the 20s and early 30s, what did your mother
do for pleasure? What social groups did she... Oh,
she went with...
civic clubs and the women around on the campus had a
bunch of civic clubs that they worked with. But in
addition, my father realized that she was going to
have some problems and so he got her interested in
birds. In what? Birds.
And we have some birds in our, I've not found them
yet, but he bought all the books that you could find
on birds. Oh, how marvelous. Including the
ottomans. He had some of the big original models.
I think my sister's got it. All right, a
suggestion. If the family is ever willing to part
with any of those, please give them to this library
so that your family's name would always be there.
If y'all ever want to pass them on outside the
family, give them to the Texas A&M Library. We've
done that to a number of things. Well, that's
great, because...
We discovered... a
book that the
cemetery had out there, at the Bryan Cemetery, and
it describes all, what the only problem is, it
shouldn't be, I'm glad that colleges got it,
because you could get sued over it.